# Web-Scrapping-Assets-Analysis
This project performs a web scrapping on investing.com to create a portfolio of different assets and analyzes the different results

### Data-driven portfolio management
### Programming for Data Processing Final Project

### Stephan Wolters Eisenhardt
### Gema Díaz Ferreiro
### Rafael Sojo García
### Nicolás Amigo Sañudo

# Content of the root directory

The root directory stores different folders related to the code, data files and other documents of the Final Project of the course Programming for Data Processing. The details about each of the contents are explained in the following points. There are no more subdirectories within these folders.

- Src: The Python code files developed to solve the problems raised in the project. 
	
	- web_scrapping.py: Code for obtaining the required data using web scrapping.
	- investment_strategies_generation.py: Code for the investment strategies generation.
	- strategy_analysis.py: Code for the investment strategies analysis.

- Metrics: The CSV format data files generated from the execution of the file investment_strategies_generation.py are stored in this directory.

	- portfolio_allocations.csv: portfolio allocations generated by the Python code file.
	- portfolio_metrics.csv: information generated from the different portfolios with the annual return and volatility of each.

- Webscraping: The CSV format data files generated from the execution of the file web_scrapping.py are stored in this directory. Each of the files corresponds to historical data harvested from the assets.

	- amundi-msci-wrld-ae-c.csv
	- db-x-trackers-ii-global-sovereign-5.csv
	- ishares-global-corporate-bond-$.csv
	- spdr-gold-trust.csv
	- usdollar.csv

- Report: The PDF file with the data analysis questions including a brief answer for each and some plots.

- Graphs: All graphs used in the analysis part of the assignment.

- Docu: An automatically generated documentation of the three scripts in html format. Run index.html as entry point.

- requirements.txt: The text file that saves a list of the modules and packages required by the project. Since no version is specified for each, the latest available is installed.


# Code execution

In order to install all the Python packages and versions required by the code is enough to execute the following command:

	pip install -r requirements.txt

For the execution of each of the Python files, it is enough to carry out the following code:

	python <file_name.py>

The order in which the scripts must be executed is the one described below:

	1. web_scrapping.py
	2. investment_strategies_generation.py
	3. strategy_analysis.py


# Python modules/files explanation

As it is explained above, the following Python files are stored in the directory called "src".

- web_scrapping.py:

Python file containing all the functionalities related to the web scrapping part of the assigment. This performs the harvesting of historical data from investing.com for the assets below. This information is then stored in CSV files.

	- Amundi Index Msci World Ae-c
	- iShares Global Corporate Bond UCITS (CRPS)
	- Xtrackers II Global Government Bond UCITS ETF 5C (XG7S)
	- SPDR® Gold Shares (GLD)
	- US Dollar Index (DXY)

- investment_strategies_generation.py:

Python file containing all the functionalities related to the generation and evaluation of investment strategies. The portfolio allocations are stored in the CSV file portfolio_allocations.csv after executing this script. Additionally, this data file is used to obtain the annual return and volatility of each portfolio. This data is saved at the same time in the portfolio_metrics.csv file.

- strategy_analysis.py:

Python file containing all the functionalities related to the last part of the assignment and which conveys a detailed support for the investment analysis report. It contains functions that serve a special purpose for an in-depth data visualization analysis. These functions load the portfolio metrics data from a CSV file for the analysis.

